hey guys before the video starts i just
wanted to let y'all know that our coach
program is actually expanding
threefold coaches are all personally
trained by me and are there to help you
with problems like procrastination
motivation depression anxiety and
helping you get unstuck
so check out the first link in the
description below
hey guys i'm dr oliver konoja i'm a
psychiatrist and co-founder of healthy
gamer
and we're on a quest to help the
internet with its mental health
so today i want to talk to you guys with
about something really important it's
one of the things that keeps people sort
of stuck
in failure and that's a principle called
moving goal posts
so one of the damnedest things that we
do to ourselves is that a lot of times
anytime we succeed we actually our mind
does this little flip that turns
success into a failure and i call that
principle moving goal posts
so a lot of times you know we'll set
goals for ourselves right we feel like a
failure because we're
um maybe we're out of shape or
you know we don't wake up on time or
things like that and then our mind does
something really really tricky when we
try to make a change
so what will actually end up happening
is we will make a change at some point
right one day you'll eat something
healthy
and then instead of viewing that as
success success our mind does something
really tricky if we eat a salad for
lunch
our mind does this really slippery thing
is that it tell
it tells us oh we should have done this
a long time ago
why didn't we start sooner right and oh
now we're going to start eating eating
healthy every day so our mind takes
one success and it turns it into a
failure just think about that right
and it does it in two ways the first
thing is that we beat ourselves up for
not doing it earlier
even though we're taking a step in the
right direction instead of being
inspired by it instead of being
motivated by it
instead of giving ourselves a pat on the
back what do we do
we beat ourselves up and so bizarrely we
turn
our success we turn this positive energy
in this good thing in our life that oh
we ate healthy today
and we turn it into a failure we
transform it into a failure about the
past oh i should have been
eating healthy my entire life and watch
what your mind does it's tricky right
and so it takes positive energy and
turns it into negative energy
the second thing that we do that sort of
destines us for failure
is that we take a success and then we
move the goal posts
we say oh i ate healthy today now i'm
going to eat healthy tomorrow
the goal that you woke up with today was
to eat
healthy today it's not to eat healthy
for the next week
or the next month or the next year it
was a small goal
and you can accomplish a small goal you
can take one step at a time
but our mind does the damnedest little
thing which is that it takes
a success and moves the goal posts on us
right
and then we destin ourselves for failure
so we say okay i ate healthy today now
i'm gonna eat healthy the entire week
and that's not something that you're
really capable of right because what can
you actually do you can eat healthy
maybe one meal but when you the second
that you have one success
you move the goal posts on yourself and
you set yourself
up for a success or for a failure that
because the success that you
want is not really going to be feasible
right you take taking one step forward
and then suddenly you expect so much
more from yourself you take the concept
of your success and then you move the
goal posts you change
the way you define success okay i ate
healthy today
now i have to eat healthy for the entire
week
and that too transforms your success
into a failure
so stop moving the goal posts on
yourself be really really careful
because this is what leads to a life
where you feel like a failure every day
the crazy thing about this is that
you're not a failure every day
you guys are actually succeeding all the
time
the problem is that you won't let
yourself sit with that success
you won't let yourself give yourself a
pat on the back all that ends up
happening is that you move the goal
posts on yourself and you expect so much
more than you're capable of
right instead of focusing and practicing
and getting better at eating healthy
today
the second you eat healthy today you
expect so much more of yourself tomorrow
and the next day in the next day and
then what happens is you inevitably fail
and when you
fail comes all the shame comes all the
disappointment comes all the oh i can't
you know i i'm lazy i'm undisciplined i
don't have any willpower
look at all those people out there that
are so much better than i am
i wish i was disciplined enough to eat a
salad every day
no my friend that's not what you should
wish what you should wish is exactly
what you've accomplished which is that
i wish every now and then i could eat a
salad
because if that's the goal post that you
set for yourself and you don't let
yourself move it
you can succeed and then you become a
different person
you become someone who succeeds
sometimes and fails sometimes
which is a wildly different thing from
someone who fails all the time
and why do you fail all the time because
you keep on moving goalposts on yourself
and so then we have to we have to beg
the question why do we do that
why do we move the goalposts it's
because of all of that negative
perception
that we have to balance right if i view
myself as a complete
failure if i view myself as someone who
fails all the time
the only success that will balance that
is a huge success
it's not good enough if i'm 300 pounds
overweight
it's not good enough to eat a salad one
day a week it's just not
good enough and that's what we tell
ourselves right because we have this
perception that we're
so overweight or that we're so much of a
failure that we have to balance it with
a big success it's the
only way to make up for how bad of a
person you are is you have to have an
astronomic success if you dropped out of
college you can't
finish community college you've got to
go to harvard right
you got to balance that success because
you feel like such a failure
there's got to be a huge success
otherwise it's not enough
and so when we eat healthy for a day we
say i gotta eat healthy for a month
because i have 300 pounds to lose eating
one
eating healthy one day a week is not
going to give me the success that i
need to be where i want to go
and so we move the goal posts because
we've got to make up for lost time right
we've got to make up for it because
we're such a failure
and why do we have to move the goal post
because we view ourselves as such a
failure
so what happens when we start to see
ourselves as instead of a complete
failure
someone who succeeds sometimes and fails
sometimes
if you start to see yourself that way
then suddenly you don't have to move the
goal posts as well
right you don't have to be an absolute
success
because you're successful half of the
time you only have to you only have to
move the goal posts a little bit
more you don't have to move them a huge
amount you just have to move a little
bit more
and then something magical happens
because the less you start moving the
goal posts
the more successful you become and the
more successful you become
the more your identity changes
to no longer being a failure and the
less of a failure you feel about
yourself
the less you move your goal posts the
less you move your goal posts
the more successful you become the more
you view yourself as a success
and the less you have to move your goal
posts
you guys feel stuck in a cycle of
failure
and that absolutely sucks and don't get
me wrong it is a cycle
right because with each failure more
shame you have to make it up more
each year that goes by that you fall
more and more behind
the more miraculous you have to be to
make up for lost time
if you're 24 years old you just have to
make up for a couple of years
if you're 28 years old you have to make
up for so much more time
if you're past your 30s now you have to
really do something miraculous to turn
things around
and so the bigger gap you create for
yourself the more of a failure you feel
like
and then the more of a failure you
become because the
the goal posts have moved so far that
there's no human way there's no
plausible way that you can actually
succeed you destine yourself for failure
so it is absolutely a vicious cycle and
the question is how to break it
and the good news is that the vicious
cycle works
both ways if you can start to
to take one step forward and be
satisfied with it
right if you can take one step forward
and not move the goal posts
and you can say you know what i did a
good job today
at the end of the day today is a day
that i actually ate healthy
today is a day where i may be 300 pounds
overweight
but i know at the end of today i'm not
301 pounds overweight
if you can give yourself one success and
then not move the goal posts
then you shift your perspective about
yourself the more you shift your
perspective the less you move the goal
posts
the easier it is to succeed and then the
more you shift your perspective
and then eventually you become the
person that you want to be
you become the person that you see and
you envy
you become the person that other people
envy
they look at you and they say man that
person is disciplined
that person isn't lazy and the crazy
thing
is that you are exactly the same thing
that you used to be
the only difference is what you do in
here the only difference is that you
perceive yourself
to not be a failure anymore because you
don't actually fail all the time
no one fails all the time it feels that
way
but you don't actually fail all the time
and then what you focus on is okay
i ate healthy today i ate healthy today
and i ate unhealthy for the next five
days
this week i'm gonna see if i can do one
day a week of eating healthy
and then you can do that right and then
the next day next week now here comes
the tricky thing what do you do the next
week
do you bump it up to two days a week no
no no that's moving the goal post
the next week you say let's see if we
can do it again
let's see if we can eat healthy one day
a week
and then the next week do you move it to
two days no no no
still one day a week and something
really magical starts to happen because
if you stop moving the goal posts
even though you set your target at one
day a week
you'll start to eat healthy more you'll
start to be inspired and then you'll say
oh wow i actually
ate healthy three days a week today
that's crazy
i better eat healthy three days next
week no no no
then you go to two be careful about
moving the goalposts
the second you start to expect
yourself to be perfect every day the
second you start to expect
more from yourself than you're capable
of is the second you doom yourself to
failure
and so acknowledge where you are and do
the best that you can today
and set low expectations for yourself
instead of correcting for all of the
crap that you've had to deal with in the
past instead of making up for lost time
because it's hard right
you can't lose 300 pounds in a week but
that's sure as hell what you feel like
you
have to do so don't give in to that
don't move the goal posts on yourself
expect more from your less from yourself
let yourself be worse than you are and
let yourself be successful at taking
tiny steps
there's no shame in eating healthy for
one day
create that shame in our mind by moving
our gulpos it isn't enough
i should have done it a long time ago
right so be careful
and something magical will happen if you
see yourself moving those goal posts and
you don't let yourself do it because you
have to catch yourself doing it first in
order to stop it
and the less you move your goal posts
the more your life is going to turn
in a positive direction and that's going
to be a vicious cycle too and that's
what happens with people who lose 300
pounds
it's a vicious cycle of positivity
instead of a vicious cycle of negativity
and that vicious cycle is born out of
not letting yourself move the goalposts
so i hope that this little tidbit and
this little insight
into why you're doomed for failure why
you're destined to failure helps you
because it really does help
as you start to see this stuff happen in
your mind you can see how you work as a
person
and you can start to make changes in
your life and if you guys like this kind
of stuff if it is helpful to you
let us know by liking or subscribing or
commenting
and the more that we hear from you about
like what's helpful and what isn't
that's how we know what to do so thanks
a lot for listening guys i'm dr k from
healthy gamer and
good luck and don't let yourself move
your goal posts
you